From: Agnostic                         Base   : (Tab) Yum.
To  : Yohimbe

Mr. Yohimbe,

 I saw your cheese remarks on the quote board shortly after logging on. 
Needless to say I am extremely disappointed in you. Please take note that you 
and your anti-cheese associates (be they just one or more) will be receiving
a rehabilitation session some time in the near future. Really, I should just 
dip you into my volcano of melted cheddar, but people might hear your
screams of delight.

 we couldn't have that; how could I cope with the demands?

 luckily, for your sake, I'm flying to the moon tonight to see my partners.
                                            
From: Yohimbe                        

I merely stated that cheese made one slow and sluggish..  Now, you, dear sir, 
have interpreted that as a negative..  I, on the other hand, feel that the 
frantic, anxiety ridden world of ours could use something to slow its pace 
down to the slow, molten tide of white cheddar caressing spears of lightly
steamed broccoli..  yes, congealed milk-fat is the panacea for pre-millenial
agitation..

From: Agnostic                         

 slow, fine. but sluggish? surely you must  have an unappetizing image
associated with that particular word?

From: Yohimbe                        

ah, you're confusing me with some else..  slugs are just fine..  all 
hermaphroditic pseudopods are deserving of respect..  and a respectful 
distance, too..

From: Zinnia Kray                      

"Single-footed creatures"

har har

From: Happyfish                        

Y'know, I've never understood why snails are considered cute, while slugs are 
disgusting and vile.

Slugs are faster and more vivacious, higher on the evolutionary ladder, make 
fine pets, and are just damned cute.

Snails plot the detsruction of humankind with thier evry foul slimy step.

From: Rabid                            
Subj: ???                              

How come this base isn't as popular anymore?

From: Hidden Text                      

Because people are talking of SLUGS instead of food?  
(and NO, these two AREN'T interchangeable!!@)

-text

From: Zamfir Worshipper                

Just add a little salt and pepper. They shrivel up all nice-like.

Very juicy.