Any explanation for the following passage has been well and truly lost in the
obscuring mists of time.  Circa 2003, I wrote it, obviously hepped up on 
exploring the implications of my discovery of an Ethiopian culinary practice.
It was initially published at everything2.com, my primary online venue during 
the artscene's Dark Ages, from where much to my astonishment and delight it 
was plagiarised wholesale by ethiopianrestaurant.com.  Drunk on having my 
literary whimsy (by possibly the world's whitest person) embraced and adopted 
by (presumably) actual Ethiopians to serve as an ambassador for their 
customs, I parlayed with them to negotiate rights for their use of the text 
in exchange for delicious Ethiopian food, but sadly we were based on 
different coasts and nothing came of it.

...

Too often the western tradition of dining has left the food experience a 
relationship of sterile interplay strictly between fork and mouth, as though 
we are so afraid of coming into contact with and really _engaging_ the food 
we are about to ingest we cannot bring ourselves to touch it with our 
fingers.  Picnicking removes the abstraction of cold metal from the equation 
and leaves nothing but the desired food to be conveyed between hand and 
mouth; gursha is the final breakdown of a rigid implementation of notions of 
personal space preventing eating from becoming a fully and truly social 
enterprise.

Beneath a Coptic illustration of a fellowship of thirteen enjoying themselves 
in a similar scene, a colossal communal platter arrives on the basket-woven 
table you share with a handful of close companions, people after whom you are 
comfortable reaching into the communal plate having observed them suckling 
errant drops of spiced sauce from their fingertips and reaching back to the 
plate themselves.

For despite the picture, the Ethiopian tradition follows their saying: those 
who eat from the same plate will not betray each other... and fear of the 
contents of the mouths of those you break bread with betrays a disturbing 
lack of trust. The rule of thumb is that if you trust what comes out of their 
mouths when it goes into your ears and resonates in your head, you are 
already more vulnerable and open to them than any vector of contagion could 
complicate. So loosen up, and try to enjoy this meal. You won't have to try 
very hard.

Unrolling and tearing off a strip of injera, the unleavened teff flatbread, 
you survey the spiced and steaming terrain before you, perhaps taking a sip 
of thick, pulpy mango juice, ginger-nutmeg tea, or tej (the mead-like 
Ethiopian honey wine), all the while contemplating with momentous gravity 
your first move. Will you wrap the garlic spinach in with a piece of 
hard-boiled egg or instead mate the curried lentils to the peppery goat wat 
(stew) -- all on a savoury mat of sauce-sopped bread beneath?

The precarious choice made, your right hand swoops down from above and with 
deft precision ensnares the fated ingredient(s) in the net of pristine 
injera, along with a small quantity of goat's cheese. Lovingly you wrap the 
edges tight and close around this little morsel, an impromptu dumpling, 
raising it to mouth-level. Your friend's smile widens and they obligingly 
part their lips to permit the passage of the mouthful you deposit on their 
tongue, fingerprint scraping lightly over their incisor like a skipping 
record as your hand withdraws and they begin the glad work of chewing.

What is going on? There is an allegorical saying from another tradition that 
distinguishes Heaven and Hell solely by the eating habits of its residents; 
for when the tortured in Hell try to feed all are gathered around a colossal, 
bubbling cauldron thirty feet around filled to the brim with rich, nourishing 
stew, each equipped with preposterous chopsticks ten feet long, rendering it 
nearly impossible for them to get the food they pinch into their own mouths. 
The arrangement in Heaven is very similar, except in that the bites its 
beatific souls manage to pluck from the roiling broth are fed to their 
neighbors on the other side of the cauldron; thus through cooperation 
everyone is rendered jovial and content. It is only this lack of 
consideration on the part of the selfish tormented that keeps them in Hell.

Gursha refers then to this practice, of selflessly arranging and putting into 
another's mouth portions of food, reaffirming in the feeding a certain 
carnal, fleshly connection in contemplation of the distinction between the 
meat you put into the injera and the meat you put the injera into. While it 
might be considered a romantic gesture between lovers, this is no sacrament 
restricted solely to people whose mouths meet on an ordinary basis -- as a 
fundamental gesture of appreciation the custom is no different from a hug 
between friends, no less bond-affirming than a mother feeding her child by 
hand. Before any sort of connection is made with anyone, you have to first 
reach out to them.

...

Can I endorse this species of trust game in pandemic times?  While it
admittedly doesn't seem like public health best practices, if you don't mask 
indoors possibly you may as well be doing it.