This is an interesting technological note from my historic low period.  In 
the first decade of this century I did not experience what could be described 
as regular gainful employment.  Due to circumstances I was in no imminent 
risk of winding up unhoused, but my access to the money needed to attend to 
my necessaries was often rather sporadic.  Consequently my larder was 
primarily occupied with giant sacks of bulk dry goods from Famous Foods off 
which I would live for months at a time (a strategy that could backfire 
catastrophically through the intervention of a single moth or weevil.)

At one point, at the end of my rope, I found myself starving with a cupboard 
full of ingredients -- but no _food_.  Rather than taking stock of my life, 
cutting my hair and cold-calling local businesses, I thought that possibly 
technology might be able to help to assuage the immediate problem of my 
growling belly.  I had a lot of some ingredients (notably flour, basically a 
staple of life), but the complicating factor was that virtually anything else 
you might mix it with in order to concoct any dish beyond wheatpaste for 
postering was not on the premises and beyond my reach, financially.  (I will 
never forget the day my roommate carelessly cooked my last onion.  That onion 
represented most of the flavour I had looked forward to experiencing that 
week!  I had big plans for that onion!  The Day I Came To Terms With Making 
Do Without My Onion really must have been my hitting rock bottom.)

So I fired up the Google search engine, firmly in its pre-enshittification 
"Don't Be Evil" era, and began looking for recipes that included ingredients 
I had in stock -- and which didn't include recipes I didn't have and couldn't 
get.  I effected this investigation through its then best-of-class simple 
search term exclusion system.  In this way I could algorithmically omit 
results that included the missing ingredient, only to turn up new results 
featuring other ingredients I also didn't have.

I don't know that the trick would work the same way today.  Around the turn 
of the century Google was very good about giving you what you asked for and 
only that, making possible such feats as as the Googlewhack, discovering a 
virtual hapax legomenon, words or phrases that only occur a single time in 
the cyber record.  Down the line Google became very cagey about allowing 
empty search results to be served up to users, and someone in the Search 
division determined that it would be preferable to give us results to 
searches similar to ours rather than to allow us to be served up a blank 
results page.  (You can't sell ads on a blank results page, no one is buying 
void, especially in this economy!)

From a 2024 perspective, you might expect to run into entirely new frontiers 
of search problems these days -- the unwanted AI assistant they interpolated 
between the asker and the answer might be only too happy to hallucinate an 
inedible, outright toxic, or possibly even fundamentally impossible recipe 
faced with the challenge of satisfying a user's curiosity and the reluctance 
to allow me to walk away empty-handed.  (This brings to mind concentration 
camp artifacts of cookbooks full of recipes dreamed up by starving inmates, 
their relationship to sustanance so deranged and disrupted through the 
horrors of ethnonationalism that the dishes described simply don't work as 
food, ie. a cake whose batter is mixed by combining two cups of flour with a 
cup of milk and 20 cups of table salt.  Their traumatized brains were being 
digested by their starving bodies, but now technology is happy to bypass the 
process of actually starving imprisoned populations and deliver us similar 
textual output on demand, whether we want it or not.  But I digress.)

Once you search for a recipe including an ingredient you have and excluding 
an ingredient you don't have, of course what Google would serve you up next 
would be a different recipe hinging on the use of a different ingredient you 
also didn't have.  So I'd have to modify my search terms to also exclude the 
new pivotal but absent ingredient.  It took quite a while, but after 
explicitly excluding twenty common words from the results, I unbelievably 
actually yielded a couple of usable, albeit starkly primitive, recipes for 
flatbreads.

And for reasons that were not clear in that moment (and remain rather 
nebulous even today), this process struck me as being significant enough to 
document at that time, and so I am able to share with you my incredible chain 
of twenty search term inclusions and exclusions I used on that occasion circa 
2006 to somehow shake lunch out of "I got nothin'":

recipe baking flour sugar -rye -yeast -butter -margarine -shortening -oil 
-lard -crisco -milk -cream -buttermilk -egg -eggs -apple -kirsch -tofu -soy 
-mayonnaise -reviews -review 

(if I recall correctly, this journey ultimately yielded a flatbread not 
entirely dissimilar to the Green Onion Pancakes I long enjoyed at the Sha-Lin 
Noodle House, which it turns out could be reproduced for pennies.  What was 
the grease?  I really cannot recall.  What was the flavour?  Probably garlic.)

If you find yourself in this situation, please let me advise you not to 
follow in my footsteps.  Visit a food bank or soup kitchen and find some 
help.  I never figured out why I didn't, but had I kept on that path even I 
would have eventually needed to concede that no amount of stubbornness, 
regardless of whether it is paired with powerful technology, will allow you 
to get blood from a stone.