The Hacker's Kitchen Guide, or, How not to die.

The Hacker's Nutritional Guide

Hacker Philosophy of Eating

Eating is generally viewed by most hackers as wasted time. For example,
10 seconds taken to eat a bite of Cola-Gummi can mean the difference between
Morris/Torvalds level concentration (big-endian concentration) and
distraction.  Time taken for such ridiculous things as sleep, going to the
washroom, or food are considered goofing off to the majority of hard-headed
coders out there and circuit-frying hardware weenies. Therefore, the hacker
diet is most compact and time efficient (except when it is not, which is
expected.) Of course, these fine principles of nutrition fade in the face of
personal taste, and weakness and distraction. But they help for those long
nights when you simply must finish the Goddamn Code and there are gremlins on
the inside of your SGI that are putting errors in the static libraries _you
are sure of it!_
      
Eating Habits

        There are two schools of hacker feeding:

Nothingness: Eating as little as possible, whenever possible.
             Usually 20 meals a day.
Gluttony: Eating as much as possible in large bursts, usually 1 meal a day.

        These schools of thought are variable of course. When a hacker is on
daylight hours (not coding, hacking) and on social occasions, these
conventions break down. It is also interesting to note that you can identify
a hacker by diet. Anybody who constantly drinks water/Coca-Cola and eats
Boost fuel replacement bars is probably a hack.      

Four Major Food Groups Groups
            
The big four are:
      Caffeine/Stimulants/Medicinals
      Carbohydrate Group
      Petrochemical Group
      Sugar Group
      Exceptions (Not really a group)
      
      Caffeine/Stimulants/Medicinals

            Generally Caffeine/Stimulants/Medicinals can be any substance
(usually pharmecutical in nature) that enhances the performance of the
following systems in the body:
      
      Parasympathetic Nervous System (Fight-or-Flight reactions to maintain
        nervous edge)
      Central Nervous System (Higher brain functions such as object
        subclassing in C++)
      Sombulatic Repression Loop aka Asimbulatic Loop (Sleep repression part
        of a person's metabology.)
      Various Glandular systems for low-level body hacking (For stimulation
        of the appropriate hormones, fine-tuning performance.)

            Exceptions to this general rule are substances that may be a
ritualistic part of hacking. For example, substances like Elacca and mustard
powder are used for a total digestive system cleansing after a bad hack. They
serve no purpose other than ritual, but then again, that is important to
mental health.
      
A List of Common Medicinals

      Vitamins A, B12, C (500mg or more), ProVitaSoy drink.
      Ginko Biloba
      Ginseng
      Ground Sunflower petals (rich in phosphorus!)
      Anything dried and powdered from Chinatown (bear livers, cod noses etc.)
      Chili Peppers (habaneros, espositos, jalapenos)
      Jolt Cola (applies in all categories)
      Laxatives
      Tylenol 3 + Sherry, Jack Daniels || booze = fun
      Mold taken off top of Pizza (Penicillin V or Amoxicillin)
      
A List of Common Stimulants

      Vasopressin (Purint and hormone stimulant in the brain stem.
        For low level body hacking)
      Piracetam (Antioxidant and all around smart drink)
      Pure Oxygen (cellular metabolism enhancer in many ways.)
      Laughing gas (relieves emotional stress, makes you laugh)
      Sprite + Cough medicine = hallucinations?
      Chromium Picolinate (Metabolic enhancer)
      Jolt Cola (applies in all categories)
      Anything available from Finlandia Pharmacy that they reccomend (10th
        and Arbutus)
      TENS electrostimulator (for muscular/nervous stimulation, attach to
        temples for dangerous but quick wake up or black out..)
      Adrenaline (available from snake bite, bee sting and medical kits
        everywhere.  Best percentage from St. Johns ambulance kit. VERY VERY
        dangerous. Inject in to various veins)
      Pituitary hormone(s) (usually extracted from dead monkeys, so may not
        be ethical. Use with extreme caution, only for 2 weeks+ hacks.)
      Pain (triggers various opoids and natural highs.)
      Pipe cleaners
      
      A List of Common Caffeine Sources

      These are good caffeine sources.  Tested and selective. Others may
imitate them, but each source has its benefits.  To a true Berkeley hacker
(esoteric west coast AI coders and ex-BSD project staff) caffeine sources are
like wine. An example would be Dr. Pepper. It has a rich, sweet, and acient
taste. It rolls pleasantly off ones soft palate, and leaves just the right
pressure of CO2 in the sinuses. Best served ice cold in warm weather (when
the nitrogen cooler on the Cray blows itself out, or the air conditioning
goes.)

      A List of Common Caffeine Sources

      Coke (Coca-Cola)
      Coffee
      Bukkett Coffee (Dangerous, from Div Bukkett bucket@sultry.ai.unc.edu)
      Tea (Russian or Indian)
      Medical Kits (For heart attack victims, direct ventricular injection)
      Dr. Pepper
      Brio Chinotto
      Cafe Semifredo (a Gelato, or Gelati. Italian ice cream. Made with the
        dense European coffee we love so well.)
      Turkish Coffee
      Gunk on bottom of coffee maker (handle with care! very powerful!)
      Polish Coffee
      Espresso
      Intervenous drip (careful with this one.)
      Cardiac injection (St. John's ambulance kits have best percentages or
        parts per million.)
      Any Starbucks variety that is over $300 a gram.

            Carbohydrate Group

            Carbohydrates are the primary weapon of a person (or what's left
of a sysadmin) who has been fasting. It is also the solemn dirge of one who
loves to consume until blue in the face. For the nothing school of eating,
carbohydrates are best consumed before a long period of work. For the glutton
school, they are best consumed all through the period of work. The most
effective and time efficient way to consume carbohydrates is intervenously.
This is difficult to do for reasons best mentioned, lest a fanatic read this:
Intervenous does not work well for people with high blood pressure. It does
not, therefore, go down well with our hack heart rates. We could explode the
drip bag.

      Preparation

            Carbohydrates are best prepared boiled to nothingness (mash
potato primordial soup) or dry. There is some leeway with purified water,
seeing that cooking is not neccesary to produce a completely bacteria-free
product.  Please make sure that the product you try to cook is SEALED well.
Otherwise, there could still be a germ or two left in the food. That just
wouldn't do.  The fragile health between coma and hyperactivity, hacks must
guard their immune systems well. Remember when the old VM machines were in a
glass house?  That was there to make sure the admins didn't get colds. 

      Rice, pasta
      Cream of Wheet (made WITHOUT milk, with distilled water)
      Kraft Dinner (With or without catsup)
      Boost Bars
      Bagels (REAL ones from Benny's Bagels on 10th)
      Potato(e)s (None of those organix shitty ones from Capers... REAL
        irradiated ones)
      All-Bran (taken dry, or with distilled water)
      Jolt Cola (Applies in all categories)
      Idahoan potatoes
      Sai-min/Gai-Jin noodles
      Powdered variety, Mashed potatoes.

            Petrochemical Group

            Dinosaur piss is good stuff. For one, it makes up plastic, so why
not eat it? Surely if a rubber boot can last 2000 years a human can if he/she
eats enough hydrocarbons. There are a couple of ways to purchase the proper
petrochemical:

      Make sure the gas station/COSTCO is well stocked with non-chocolate
items.
      Purchase the mooshy, hard, covered with acidic crystal stuff. It
preserves your ulcer well.
      Buy nothing less than 300g at once.
      The cheapest are the best.

      It is best to buy your petrochemicals from a reputable manufacturer.
It is a rumour at the USGS (United States Geological Survey) that Saudi
Arabian-derived foam bananas are better than the American variety. Many
patriotic Canadians died to bring us this information. Use it well. Do not
buy from Texaco.

      List of Common Petrochemical products

      Foam Bananas
      Blue fish/blue feet
      Sour keys
      Gummi Bears (none of that fruit juice crap.)
      Foamy Strawberries (Covered with crust of red dye No.5 crystal)
      Licorice (also has medicinal value.)
      Sweet Cheez (hard to find)
      Green hair candy
      King Kombo jelly
      Jello jigglers
      Jolt Cola (Applies in all categories)
      Creamo fake cream
      Packaged gravy (yessir, its a petrochemical! Mm mmm good.)
      Chicken boullion cubes

            Sugar Group

            The world of sugar consumption is governed by only a couple of
rules.  For the purposes of this Guide, the reader is left to fend for
him/herself in the matter of choice. All sugar is good, be it extruded
(candyfloss) or crystalized (rock candy.)

      Rules of Sugar Selection:

            Cost is no object for good sugar!

      Quality is generally better than quantity. (eg. One Trouffalt de Four
at Quiver's of Paris or 432 Mars Bars world wide? There is no question.)

      Avoid the dreaded organic sugar and honey-sweetened goods. They merely
pretend to be something that they are not.

      Jolt Cola is an excellent source of sugar!

      Some hackers thrive on regularity of diet (3 Mars Bars a day) and some
on absolute diversity. FIND OUT WHICH YOU ARE!

      The Exceptions to the Groups (Because hacking involves exceptions)

            Make any exceptions you like. If you are a bisexual gerbil from
Romania, and you enjoy fruit-sweetened organic carrots, go right ahead. Eat
them.  See if I care. You are only as good as the number of exceptions you
have to this list. As a matter of fact, I am hoping to gauge the health of
the hack community by reading all the hatemail that this Guide gets. Flame
me, please. Hackdom is better as Spock put it, in Infinite Diversity in
Infinite Combinations.

      Good Dietary Habits:
	  
            Eat. If you die, it means that you have either eaten too much or
too little.
