Today, to delect and elate your intellect, I present to you my new critical 
series: Reviews of Restaurants At Which I Have Never Actually Eaten!

Throw off the hegemony of priveleged experience! Enter into the landscape of 
imaginary dining! 

* Moxie's Classic Grill - 4 Unhinged Urban Landscapers out of 5

Having accidentally picked up some part time work over the holidays, I had 
the great fortune to work upstairs from the ugliest restaurant known to all 
mankind. For those who know Vancouver, Moxie's is on Broadway at Burrard -- 
but apparently it's a franchise, so even readers as far away as Manitoba 
might have a chance to experience the glaring attention to hideous non-
sequiturs that characterises this establishment's fascinating decor. I say 
this with no little gravity: this restaurant is so ugly it will make you 
irrationally happy. If you have fallen from grace with the Church, it may 
well rekindle your belief in God.

From the enormous indoor fireplace placed outside on the ill-situated 
sidewalk patio, to the giant twisty adobe-beige french fries framing the 
entrance gates, this restaurant satisfies even the most die-hard anti-
aesthete. Everything is made of cast iron, except for the things that are 
just painted to look like they're made of cast iron. But it's not just that 
it looks uncomfortable to sit on -- it looks uncomfortable to sit _near_. 
Random lighting is the order of the day, with glowing red and orange things 
inserted into whichever structures -- and certainly not enough light, because 
that would ruin the whole thing.

Examining the menu -- completely overlooking both food and price, as befits 
this review -- I beheld the coup de resistance. Moxie's slogan: Food is our 
passion. People are our secret. Yes, that's right -- people are their secret. 
Secret... ingredient? Only whatever mad genius is responsible for this beacon 
of the avant-garde could ever say for sure what is meant by this fascinating 
statement, though a survey of one suggests that a better slogan might be 
"Moxie's: you'll come for the food, but you'll leave without your eyes!"

* Opera Sushi - 8.5 Incomprehensible Approaches to Promotion out of 10

Another restaurant in the same neighbourhood, I've walked by this place 
hundreds of times on the way to eat horrible, unsatisfying food elsewhere -- 
even though I love sushi. What could their secret be? What is it about Opera 
Sushi that both calls to me, and pushes me away?

First off, the name is not mere hyperbole. Every wall of the restaurant is 
covered in portraits of famous opera stars and various other operatic 
paraphenelia. Furthermore, they play opera in the restaurant. Actually, it 
might be more accurate to say that they play opera in the restaurant, the 
restaurant's immediate vicinity, across the street from the restaurant, and 
occasionally an entire block away from the restaurant. That's right: they 
play opera so loudly that you can hear it clearly from across the four-lane 
street. God only knows what it sounds like if you actually go inside the 
restaurant: everytime I go by there I imagine some poor soul, body tucked 
over his California roll, going completely deaf.

Over the years, this detail has been enough to maintain my highly ambivalent 
relationship with the idea of eating at this restaurant. But this last pass 
through the neighbourhood has revealed a further twist that ultimately led to 
this review. The front window of the restaurant now contains a sign boldly 
proclaiming: HOME OF THE BLACK SUSHI.

That's right, gentle readers: the black sushi. Ponder for a moment this, the 
deepest of human mysteries. Do you feel something stir within the treacherous 
confines of your heart? Do you wonder how a mere restaurant -- a restaurant 
at which you have not eaten, and perhaps never will -- can stir such 
delights?

I like to imagine, in these moments of reflection, who owns Opera Sushi, and 
whether they make any money at all. I imagine a sort of stooped, Japanese 
maestro, entirely deaf in one ear, standing behind the counter, waiting for 
the customers who must surely come. And when they do, he will smile, showing 
his blackened teeth, and with a casual flick of the knife he will lay upon 
them such a feast that it will be as if Caruso himself had hit the high-C of 
the human soul.

--

Well, that's all I have for today, but don't despair -- you too can review 
restaurants based entirely on your malevolently superficial preconceptions! 
Only you can know the real reason that small Mexican restaurant is always 
completely empty, or what wonders lurk in the kitchen of the local Pan-Afro-
Indian-American Chinese Bubble Tea diner.

Tune in next week, for my next series of revolutionarily unempirical reviews: 
How Good a Kisser is That Girl I've Never Kissed?