Date: 1:04 am  Tue Dec 1, 1998         
From: Cthulu                           Base   : tab.food, glorious food
Subj: eek.                             

I almost made macaroni and cheese using egg nog instead of milk.

merry   christmas!

...

While this repast might be justifiably renamed "Why not to cook while you're
asleep" (a state which, in the past, has regrettably resulted in a pot of
spaghetti going from just-in to on-fire in the subjective blink of an eye)
it does raise some interesting taste possibilities.

The eternal explorer might well embark along the following (and highly
dangerous, might I add) line of reasoning:  "I like macaroni, and I like egg
nog, so why not?"  The same logic inconceivably worked for the infamous
Sodas' Ice Cream-Burger (two scoops of vanilla and a grilled patty on a 
sesame seed bun - not kosher in the 'boiling the baby in the milk of the 
mother' sense of things, but still damned tasty) and recent experimentations 
in local cuisine have resulted in the entirely palatable discovery of egg 
nog-flavoured gelato (an italian ice cream, holding good company at La Casa 
Gelato with the flavours of rice, pumpkin, jack fruit, ginseng, cranberry 
vodka, tira misu, wasabe and garlic ginger, among hundreds of others) so upon 
reflection, this might not be so bile-raising after all.  Many people use 
milk in macaroni and cheese anyway (or sour cream - yum) so egg nog isn't 
such a huge transition. A little egg never hurt anybody, and it's a fair bit 
safer than corn flakes with orange juice poured on top (another recipe which 
falls under the "Why not to cook while you're asleep - or rather, while you 
haven't woken up yet" school.)

To shelter the few gentle readers which may remain this far into the course
of this account, I will forego the grisly process by which egg nog is 
produced (unless The Stranger's christmas supplement lied to me...) and will 
simply encourage the purchasing of mass-produced store-bought stuff.  Similar 
advice will hold to the macaroni - the no-name brand stuff will do fine 
and in any case should be advocated to prevent the wasting of completely good
food 8)

Warn the inhabitants of your house before preparing this meal, as I imagine
the reek could be quite a number.  Open windows, establish good ventilation,
then go at it.

ingredients:

one box macaroni and cheese
1 tablespoon butter
1/2 tablespoon salt
1/2 litre egg nog

Directions:

Add salt and butter to pot of water, then bring to a boil.  Withdraw the
cheese packet from the box, then empty the contents of the macaroni and
cheese box into the boiling water.  Boil for ten minutes, stirring regularly
without the lid on.  When desired texture of macaroni is attained, remove pot
from heat and drain.  (Be careful - hot steam is marginally hotter than
boiling water.)

Open cheese packet and unceremoniously dump its contents somewhat evenly over
the strained macaroni.  Pour in the egg nog and mix it all up with a wooden
spoon until there are no more orange lumpies visible - if you do come across
any, just batter them relentlessly until they break apart.  Stand back.
Get some air if you need to.  

When you're ready, serve in small portions with parmesan cheese grated on top
and a sprig of parsley for garnish.

Add salt and pepper, cinnamon and nutmeg to taste.

To be served with mince tarts, mandarin oranges and garlic bread.

Recipe variants:

1) Use Jell-o instant chocolate pudding mix instead of cheese powder, then,
once it's mixed, put it in the refridgerator to solidify.  Serve with
sprinkles and Hershey's Kisses on top.  Is this any worse than chocolate
cheesecake?

2) Quadruple the quantity of egg nog used, add it at boiling temperature and
add tapioca mix to the pot after everything else is added.  Stir out the
lumps thoroughly and refridgerate for several hours before serving with 
sliced fruit (strawberries, kiwi) on top.

3) Strain the prepared mixture of macaroni and cheese and egg nog with a
cheesecloth and retain the fluid.  Roll the pasta in a mixture of sugar and
cinnamon and bake at 350 degrees for half an hour for a crispy treat.  Serve
with the sauce, chilled and with cloves added to it.

4) Use the egg nog as the base for a white sauce with flour and save the
cheese powder.  Sneak the powder into your brother's bong and listen to the
curses next time he lights up.

Visit the TabHouse [1998-2003] next Christmas and I promise I won't serve any
of these 8)