For several weeks now, a packaged product named "8 Flavour Bean Dessert" has 
been catching my eye. Insatiable curiosity got the better of me while
grocery shopping today.

Ingredients:  Mung beans, Lily, Lotus, Tapioca.

You boil it in 4 cups of water for 1 hour. The result is a greyish-green
"pease porridge" to which you're supposed to add sugar and/or coconut milk. 

I added about 4 tablespoons of sugar to my bowlful, and some poppyseeds for
good measure.  It was briefly palatable (the bean/tapioca parts, anyway) but  
I soon realized it was too strange for me to actually like.

Interesting.  But not, by any means, a fit food for desert. I'm sure it's
very nutritious, full of protein, but it tastes ridiculous. The lotus and
lily buds were particularly ridiculous -- starchy and objectionable. 

Needless to say, the rest went down the garburator.

From: Agnostic                         

ZK> For several weeks now, a packaged product named "8 Flavour Bean Dessert" ha

    You probably weren't expecting a reply. I take what you have written as a
document from your life, excerpted from a long list. "8 Flavour Bean Dessert"
reminds me of those Magik 8 Balls, popular so long ago. My sister's was quite 
favourable; I thought I'd have Veronica within a week, then two, then three. 
The Ouija Board was no better, but for some reason I trusted the Magik 8 Ball 
more. Anything with water, and without a visible brand name, has better 
resonance with me. Water is open to any promise.


ZK> been catching my eye. Insatiable curiosity got the better of me while
ZK> grocery shopping today.

    I was reading about trash a couple of hours ago. garbage, gomi (which, for
some odd reason, is written in katakana -- any idea what language "gomi" was 
appropriated from?). Shopping markets were mentioned briefly: the reader was 
urged to abstain from excessive packaging, certain names, etc. Slush, slush: 
my father said you can only eat idealism for so long before your stomach caves
in. Chicken Chicken!! Rub-a-dub-dub.

ZK> Ingredients:  Mung beans, Lily, Lotus, Tapioca.
ZK> 
ZK> You boil it in 4 cups of water for 1 hour. The result is a greyish-green
ZK> "pease porridge" to which you're supposed to add sugar and/or coconut milk.

    Cooking times consistently disagree with my time. I've grown into a hurry 
about food. Don't think incorrectly: I disdain fast-food, but not undercooked 
food, or food found in a cafeteria unattended. Though I fear maggots, gum 
burrowing maggots, should I eat off a stranger's plate. What is safe? I say
it's all safe; whatever isn't won't hurt me, I've already considered the 
possibility. I first heard of food poisoning from a Buck Rogers episode.

ZK> I added about 4 tablespoons of sugar to my bowlful, and some poppyseeds for
ZK> good measure.  It was briefly palatable (the bean/tapioca parts, anyway) bu
ZK> I soon realized it was too strange for me to actually like.

    That's a hurdle to get over: taste. Sounds we don't like, sights we don't 
like, smells we don't like -- all of them invade us daily. No one ever forces 
a taste on us.  So, if we could be as passive to taste as we are to the
aforementioned sensations...then what. 

ZK> Interesting.  But not, by any means, a fit food for desert. I'm sure it's
ZK> very nutritious, full of protein, but it tastes ridiculous. The lotus and
ZK> lily buds were particularly ridiculous -- starchy and objectionable. 
ZK> 
ZK> Needless to say, the rest went down the garburator.

    never a fork.
