Another seasonal treat: beans, potatoes, cabbage... what was once described as
"a bowl full of farts". Rather than coast on my traditional diet of "what kind
of noodle shall I eat tonight?" (it is not for nothing the Outlaw Band called
me Captain Carbohydrates, the fabulous superhero with the uncanny power of ...
diabetes) a brainflash in the grocery store (likely inspired by the final wing
of the last day of the last Outlaw tour which I may someday get around to
telling you about) [long story short, following 20 hrs of a 10 hr drive home
under whiteout conditions, we peeled ourselves out of our seats to roll into
the cafe on the ground floor of the Grand Forks Hotel, famously offering an
assortment of Doukhobor delicacies, and I was basically -- "garcon, give me
one of everything!"] motivated me to try my hand at borscht. Curiously, I
never liked the stuff when I was a kid  (perhaps just an immature palette, or
perhaps there was something objectionable in my parents' huge batches that,
if I wasn't thrilled with on day one, I was really nonplussed by on day five)
but for whatever reason it's suiting my [2008] tastes; not only hearty,
warming and nourishing on a cold night, it's also tremendously appealing to my
inner miser (celebrated counterpart to my inner glutton, bringing harmony 
through perpetual conflict), borscht being cheap like... ah, I forget. 
(Tractor?) I want to share it with everyone but at the same time I also want 
to eat it all, so we'll compromise; I'll tell you how I make it. I picked 
[chef exroommate achan]'s brain on a few points but rest assured the 
following recipe is more a reflection of this culinary criminal than that 
sainted chef. This borscht controversially incorporates both cabbage and 
beets and isn't particular to any nationality or region; really borscht is a 
codename for "soup made by people of Central and Eastern European origin with 
whatever they happen to have at hand locally and seasonally", which is why it 
turns out Mennonites in South America ended up with recipes for papaya 
borscht. (But... but...!)

Several generous glugs of olive oil in the bottom of my largest pot, brought 
to heat and used to sautee a whole onion, diced, and half a bulb of garlic. 
(Use less salt than you normally would proportionally with that amount of 
oil, maybe 2-3 tablespoons... you can always add more later, but you can 
never take it out! at least, not without a chemistry set) Dice yr carrots and 
beets (I've always relegated peeling for the "picky people with too much time 
on their hands" file, besides which: isn't that where most of the nutrients 
are? But beet skin will make your borscht taste like literal dirt. So get rid 
of it, really!) up small and toss 'em in next, 'cause they will take some 
time to cook. Stir it up, keep sauteeing those roots as best you can, 
considering how much moisture they're sweating into the pot. More! Okay, toss 
in four or five celery stalks, chopped, + two quartered roma tomatos (plus a 
tablespoon of sugar to counter their acid)... these will largely dissappear 
-- later you'll find slivers of tomato skin attached to nothing and muse to 
yourself, I wonder from what vegetable this fragment originated? Okay, fill 
that pot with cool water to a couple of inches above the top of the 
vegetables and just make that mother simmer. Tie up a little bundle of herbs 
(a couple of bay leaves - no more! - a couple of sprigs of thyme (my first 
application for the plant after having reared it for probably three years; 
sooner or later, all farmer's market purchases pay off), a couple of rosemary 
branches ... the first time around for lack of bay we used some leek leaves, 
and some (not me so much) like to have some dill in the mix. Tie it up tight 
for later retrieval if you don't want to be picking twigs out of your teeth! 
Let that mess simmer and add a quarter Savoy cabbage, chopped up (I am told 
the wrinkly Savoy cooks faster, which is why it is a little more expensive) 
and let that stuff soften up and release the rest of its flavour. If you're 
like me you may have parallel pots going of quartered potatos (separate to 
maintain broth clarity and retain potato integrity) and beans (separate to, 
uh, diminish the petomaniac potential). Turns out a meaty borscht (yeah, 
'cause it turns out Eastern European peasants had lots of access to meat) is 
best simmered all night, but this veggie stuff can be good to go within an 
hour. When the broth is flavoured strongly enough for you (give or take a 
splash of apple cider vinegar for krauty sourness), fish out that herb bundle 
(salt levels okay?) and figure out how you're going to want to eat the soup! 
For an austere Kaplan's-style serving, you can strain the broth out and 
jettison the rest, but my hat files off at that kind of waste: this is a man 
serious about engaging his roughage.

Since I've had so many nice experiences with the ricey cabbage rolls at the 
10th+Main First-Friday monthly perogy feed, I put on a pot of rice to eat 
with this soup (and because I am a barbarian, I throw a couple of frozen 
perogies in the rice cooker with them) ... in the bowl goes a scoop of rice, 
a scoop of beans, a potato, a perogy, two ladlefuls of broth and a third of 
the wonderful beety-cabbagey slurry... a dollop of sour cream on top and 
you're (well, I'm) laughing. (I know: rice, potatoes and perogies all in the 
same bowl? If I could only find some way of incorporating noodles, I'd 
achieve some species of satori. We're venturing into carbohydrate surprise 
territory here!) Do note that a more traditional approach to complementing 
borscht with some carbs would involve a thick slice of dense, dark bread, 
perhaps rye or pumpernickel, perhaps heavily buttered.