ultimate savory picnic bread.

For summer picnics I used to frequent the Calabria bakery up at 33rd +
Victoria in hopes of intercepting one of their elusive loaves of onion/pepper
focaccia, but after being thwarted one too many times I decided to take 
matters into my own hands, calling up my mother for the (presumably stock) 
recipe for the focaccia I remembered her making in my childhood. Amending it 
somewhat to more faithfully resemble what I'd been seeking, we came up with a 
few quick 'n easy variations.

        5 cups all-purpose flour
        2 tsp. salt
        2 cups warm tap water
        1 envelope dry yeast
        6 tbsp. olive oil, divided
        1 tsp. coarse salt

Three different suggested toppings follow, or try yr own --

        (2 Tbsp. fresh or dry rosemary)
        (1/4 onion, pepper)
        (2 cloves garlic, italian parsley, romano cheese)

1. Measure flour, salt into bowl, mix well.
2. Measure water into 2nd bowl, whisk in yeast, then 3 Tbsp. olive oil.
3. With wooden spoon stir #2 into #1 - mix vigorously.
4. Cover bowl & let rise (about 1 hour).
5. Spread 1.5 T. oil on 11x17" pan, scrape dough into pan and pat and press it into all corners. (This pan doesn't need much in terms of raised edges; a cookie sheet will do or, for the cornerless coup, a pizza pan is choice.)
6. Poke indentations on the top with fingertip at 2" intervals, drizzle with remaining oil, sprinkle with coarse salt.
7. Let it again double in size, pre-heat oven to 450 degrees, put rack in lower third of oven.
8. (add toppings, pressed down into dough)
9. Bake about 25 minutes until deep golden. (Check bottom halfway through -- if coloring deeply, slip 2nd pan under to insulate.)
[Does that really work?]
10. Cool on rack.

Not just for picnics (cheeses, fruit, meats) this also is an excellent 
accompaniment to spaghetti sauce or, hey, anything containing garlic. If you 
have roommates like [the ones I had], you may want to make a double batch in 
hopes of recouping at least one full loaf.

(If you omit the more savory toppings from this dough recipe you may find it 
to be a relatively versatile generic bread dough -- I was once served a tray 
of cinnamon buns adapted from these basic instructions, and there was no 
hint of any monkey business.)