On the road with a band I had to develop a nourishment strategy that didn't 
rely on the riders with our host venues (one free pitcher of draft beer every 
night may balance out your caloric consumption but you will die of 
malnutrition... be like our canny drummer instead and trade your surplus beer 
jugs for local lodging and hospitality!) or any expectation of worthwhile 
nourishment being easily available on the road even if we had enough money to 
buy it.  Many of our tours would start with everyone else buying bags of 
potato chips and beef jerky strips at gas stations while I'd be in the back 
with a 10lb bag of carrots, but after a couple of days they'd be begging for 
one of those carrots.  (Fortunately, it takes a while for even this human 
rabbit to go through ten pounds.)  On our final tour I actually packed a rice 
cooker and a sack filled with a mixture of rice, red lentils and chicken 
bouillon, so as long as we had access to a power outlet (eg. onstage next to 
the monitors, on a rooftop next to a hotel hallway, or squatting on a curb 
outside a gas station) I could be assured of enjoying a hot supper that 
night.  And if we found a tin of tomatoes or corn niblets to supplement our 
meagre rations with... well, one of the bands we toured Saskatchewan with was 
named Five-Star Homeless.  (In their case the name was inspired by drinking 
champagne sleeping on cardboard pads on a Paris airport floor, but same 
vibes.)

In between those band eras, I cooked and ate a lot of granola.  My wife was shocked when she learned of the absence of chocolate chips or other luxury ingredients (the only nuts I initially used were peanuts, the only fruit raisins).  Unlike her, I wasn't baking granola to have something fun to eat, I was baking it to avoid dying.  That said, 

4c rolled oats
1c wheat germ
1c wheat flakes
1c chopped pecans, cashews, almonds, peanuts
.5c raisins
.5c dried apricots, cherries, cranberries chopped
.5c Canola oil
.5c honey
.5c coconut (shredded, unsweetened)
.5tsp vanilla

sesame seeds? cinnamon? pinch of salt?  to taste, I guess!

mix dries, mix wets (oil first helps the honey out), heat wets to combine, mix wets into dries.  (I know, this sounds like the minimalist pasta life cycle.)
bake at 350 degrees for 10 minutes, agitate, 5 more minutes
add fruit
enjoy!

(and get the guitarist to turn down their monitor before he gives you all tinnitus!)  (You'll find out in around ten years!)