Tickle your palates with chopsticks,

Do you see what you gormandize?

Cast away your forks and spoons...
                                                           - Crowkeeper 98/03/21

Here is Cthulu again, now in the year 2022 [well no, 2024 actually], from
which point on some of this stuff may actually get read a litle for the
first time this century.  OK, so none of the clarifying text thus far really
goes any distance toward explaining ...  well, a number of questions
pertaining to this release.  Why did we go to the work of collecting a
complete e-mag's worth of articles in 1998 and then not release it?  Why
recipes?  Why go to the work of actually releasing this vaporware e-mag
after more than a quarter-century, confusing and dismaying both contemporary
viewers and historical authors?  What the absolute fuck, man?


Mist Classic was an artpack at war with an e-mag.  Having our debut artpack
include our infofiles packaged as an executable -- the "Kithe" electronic
magazine -- was a prestigious flourish, but it was also a profound curse. 
In place of staid NFO files, we wanted to release a new issue with every
artpack, and we wanted to release an artpack every month.  (We often weren't
capable of maintaining an artpack release pace anything remotely like that,
but that's a whole different story of underdelivering for another time.)
All you need to generate a newsletter is an ANSI editor and a lamer with a
gift for gab, but e-mag production requires greater infrastructure: not only
article authors but interface artists, soundtrack composers, and above all
-- programmers.  Is a teenaged programmer going to cook up an e-mag engine
sufficiently robust for future use by amateurs in their parent's basement? 
No, they're going to come up with jury-rigged routines strung together in
the most tenuous fashion possible, shipping it the moment it works reliably
(without really understanding why), and maybe resolving to fix and improve
the engine next time around.  But then will they actually effect the repairs
and refactoring the situation calls for?  Or will they instead stop calling
in to the WHQ, and perhaps quietly slink off to university?  Very possibly. 
I can't blame them -- an ongoing work in progress is a commitment teenaged
nerds don't need (they already ARE all the ongoing work in progress they
need!) and it's not reasonable to expect them to keep it up.  So one person
shoulders the entire burden, then disappears, and some other aspiring
programmer reinvents the wheel.  Then they disappear, and so forth and so
on.


We released a lot more artpacks than e-mags, but as our e-mags had been
charged with the sacred responsibiity of infofiles, we felt that in order to
justify themselves they had to actually accurately reflect everything you
had missed since the last issue, which was often months or in some cases
years earlier.  (We come at you, again, currently in the year 202[4], with
our most recent previous e-mag release having taken place [27 years] prior
in 1997.  27 years before that release, there was no such thing as a
personal computer!  Rest assured, we have left a great deal of water under
the bridge.)  So we would just capture and bottle up BBS message posts and
IRC chat logs as they came up, if they were deemed pertinent to notable
group affairs (and what could be more pertinent than "get to know the
personalities in our community of artists"?)  Capturing them was easy. 
Then, when the next rising programmer unwittingly volunteered to provide an
outlet for the dammed-up content, we'd have dozens of articles to overwhelm
them with, ensuring that they'd never volunteer for a successive tour.


This has been the story of Kithe so far, but this e-mag is no Kithe.  (It
inherits the legacy of Kithe #11, the Kithe Cookbook, which planted this
seed no one ever expected to come to fruition.)  It was 1996 and we could
smell the change in the weather: Windows '95 had dropped the previous year
and MS-DOS was a dead man walking.  In 1996 what was your favorite Windows
terminal program and ANSI art editor?  Trick question!  There were no
worthwhile applications for those undertakings on that platform, but you
would gladly throw them under the bus for a taste of what Netscape was
offering up.  So with the awareness that with every passing day we were
approaching the end of the CLI BBS era, we got a little trigger-happy about
bottling up the good stuff as we caught it floating by -- not just to
document the era and enshrine the milieu, but in celebration of the social
context passing before our eyes, friends we knew we would soon lose track of
and never encounter again, never having even known each others' real names. 
Smother it allll in amber!  What a magnificent time capsule we shall have!


We found our local BBS community rather productive not just in discussion of
artscene matters, but also in sharing vivid reports of fascinating dream
imagery ...  and talking about food.  (As the old adage has it, anyone who
eats three meals a day will understand why cookbooks outsell sex manuals
three to one.)  [Oh dang, looking over the articles, I already made that
reference in here 26 years ago!  Well, the quip must really be one for the
ages now!]  Kithe #14 featured significant sub-menus devoted to both topics
[dreams and food, that is], and we felt that they might be profitably spun
off into parallel dedicated e-mags with a sharper focus on their specific
themes.  This was to be the first spin-off!  But 1998 was...  rather full of
distractions.  For the first time ever, with my undivided focus at the helm,
we were succeeding with a monthly release schedule!  We had projects
creeping in all directions simultaneously, from music CDs to comic books --
surely one of them was liable to pop!  Most excitingly we were striving to
bridge the fading BBS world with the burgeoning one of the early Web.  As
Gramsci noted: "The old world is dying, and the new world struggles to be
born: now is the time of monsters!"  That effort was M-9808, and ...  well,
the monsters got us.  


In its death struggles, for March '99 Mist lashed out to the artscene with
an ultimatum -- the rest of the scene similarly unmoored, a cadre of BBS
advertisers with no BBSes remaining to advertise, I had a little too much
Blender on the brain and challenged artscene crews to pull together and
create art on a common theme -- but a serious one this time, that of Hunger. 
No one thought this was a good idea (Dieznyik joked about scrollers of Spawn
looking sadly at an empty plate, a scene I doodled terribly in ANSI for the
6th The Project...  King Arthur and I interpreted the topic musically in
tracker tunes that eventually manifested a little sooner in the MIST2000
artpack collection) but I thought that it would provide a highly synergistic
context in which to drop this e-mag.  Yet still no one made Hungry art and
this e-mag stubbornly refused to release, so you kind of have to take my
word for it.


When things ground to a halt, some unfinished Mist business sank to the
bottom of the sea with me, notably including this e-mag.  (After this
nourishing business is finally resolved, I think our only major outstanding
release of never-released work from the 20th century will be the Onyx
tracker music collection, and I should be able to get that settled in short
order [yes and no, I actually managed to get that dealt with at the start of
2024!], finally facing my first day in some 26 years without a nagging
bother in the back of my head that I've got something significant long past
due on my desk.) [That at least hasn't changed, my entire life is a
something significant long past due!]  As the light at the end of the tunnel
grew dimmer and dimmer, a real possibility remained that this mag at least
might squeeze its way out of the collapsing entropy vortex in '99 or 2000
but in the end no trace of it escaped the gravitational pull of my black
hole and it quietly carried on into the 2000s only as a faint memory in my
head, albeit a well-documented one in a folder on my hard drive.


Mist of course had a reunion in 2014, made it annual in 2015 and 2016, and
fell forward into a regular release schedule since then, and nearly all of
the unfinished business that was easy to deal with was dealt with.  This
required [...  and here the 2022 version of the infofile trailed off and was
never completed.  How was I going to finish that sentence?  I'm going to
guess something along the lines of: "This [e-mag] required quite a bit more
polish and coordination that cumulatively shuffled the undertaking right out
of the "easy to deal with" file and somewhere down the hall, ideally in
another office entirely."]  But now, to rather assertively slap a bow on it,
if you are reading this we must have somehow succeeded at rescuing it from
development hell more severe than that of Duke Nukem Forever.  (And what
recipes would HE suggest?  No, let me not digress any further, this
production just might see release if only I can stop writing!)


<Teratogen:#poetry> I will exchange 20 quatlus for an ansi standard pizza